.TH PANIC-ATTACK 1 "2026-02-11" "panic-attack 2.0.0" "panic-attack manual"
.SH NAME
panic-attack \- universal stress testing and logic-based bug signature detection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B panic-attack
.RI COMMAND [ARGS...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
panic-attack orchestrates static analysis, multi-axis assaults, crash-signature detection, and PanLL export generation for binary targets. It can also probe existing reports, render rich views, and publish agentic diagnostics for automated monitoring.
The tool is shipped alongside its Chainguard/Cerro Torre container bundle so that runtimes such as Vörðr or selur-compose can execute it as a verified component.

panic-attack's man page reflects the CLI entry points described in the README and helps the UX/UI agent (PanLL) discover supported workflows via the security menu.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B assail TARGET
Performs static code analysis to flag weak points, language constructs, and recommended attack axes.
.TP
.B attack PROGRAM
Launches a single stress axis attack with optional axis arguments, profiles, and duration controls.
.TP
.B assault PROGRAM
Combines assail analysis and multi-axis attack phases, then emits an assault report in JSON, Nickel, or other formats.
.TP
.B ambush PROGRAM
Runs the target under ambient stressors (timeline driven or directly specified axes) and exports a PanLL-compatible timeline.
.TP
.B amuck TARGET
Mutates a file with dangerous or user-defined operation combinations, writes variant files under runtime/amuck by default, and emits a JSON report.
.TP
.B abduct TARGET
Copies a target into an isolated workspace, optionally includes related files, applies readonly lock-down, and can shift file mtimes to simulate delayed-trigger behavior for defensive analysis.
.TP
.B adjudicate REPORTS...
Aggregates assault/amuck/abduct report artifacts into a campaign-level verdict using rule-based inference.
.TP
.B audience TARGET
Observes reaction signals by executing an external tool against a target and/or by inspecting existing report artifacts.
.TP
.B analyze REPORT.json
Extracts logical bug signatures from an existing crash report.
.TP
.B report <REPORT>
Prints a formatted view of an existing assault report.
.TP
.B tui <REPORT>
Opens the terminal UI for a saved report.
.TP
.B gui <REPORT>
Launches the native GUI for report review.
.TP
.B diff [BASE] [COMPARE]
Compares two reports (defaults to the two most recent stored VerisimDB files).
.TP
.B manifest [--path PATH]
Exports the AI manifest in Nickel syntax.
.TP
.B a2ml-export --kind KIND INPUT --output OUT
Encodes a report artifact as a schema-versioned A2ML report bundle (supports assail, attack, assault, ambush, amuck, abduct, adjudicate, audience).
.TP
.B a2ml-import INPUT --output OUT [--kind KIND]
Decodes an A2ML report bundle back into JSON (optionally assert expected kind).
.TP
.B panll REPORT [--out OUT]
Converts an assault report into a PanLL event-chain JSON for Pane-W import.
.TP
.B help [COMMAND]
Shows the man-style help text for panic-attack or one of its subcommands.
.TP
.B diagnostics [--manifest PATH]
Runs self-diagnostics that check for AI manifest validity, required artifact directories, and the presence of Hypatia/gitbot-fleet watchers. This command returns non-zero if any check fails so automation can detect regressions.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B panic-attack help amuck
Show focused help for mutation-combination workflows.
.TP
.B panic-attack amuck ./src/main.rs --preset dangerous --max-combinations 8
Generate dangerous mutation combinations from a target file and write a JSON report.
.TP
.B panic-attack help abduct
Show focused help for isolation/time-skew workflows.
.TP
.B panic-attack abduct ./src/main.rs --scope direct --mtime-offset-days 21
Create an isolated workspace copy, lock selected files read-only, and age mtimes by three weeks.
.TP
.B panic-attack abduct ./src/main.rs --exec-program rustc --exec-arg {file}
Run a checker against the abducted target while preserving isolation metadata.
.TP
.B panic-attack adjudicate reports/assault-a.json reports/amuck-a.json reports/abduct-a.json
Compile a larger picture from multiple report types and emit a campaign verdict.
.TP
.B panic-attack audience ./src/main.rs --exec-program panic-attack --exec-arg amuck --exec-arg {target} --repeat 3
Watch repeated target reactions while another tool runs against it.
.TP
.B panic-attack audience ./src/main.rs --report reports/amuck-a.json --head 30 --tail 30 --grep panic --agrep segmntation --agrep-distance 2 --aspell --aspell-lang en
Inspect report reactions with excerpting, exact/fuzzy pattern matching, and optional spell-check signals.
.TP
.B panic-attack audience ./src/main.rs --report reports/amuck-a.json --lang fr --pandoc-to html --pandoc-output reports/audience.html
Export localized audience markdown and convert it to another format with pandoc.
.TP
.B panic-attack a2ml-export --kind ambush reports/ambush.json --output reports/ambush.a2ml
Encode an ambush/assault-style report in A2ML report-bundle form.
.TP
.B panic-attack a2ml-import reports/ambush.a2ml --output reports/ambush.roundtrip.json --kind ambush
Decode A2ML report-bundle content back to JSON with kind validation.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
panic-attack diagnostics emits a table of OK/WARN/ERR checks for:
.PP
.TP
.RS
AI manifest (formats, storage targets)
.TP
Reports, profiles, and docs directories
.TP
verisimdb cache contents
.TP
presence of docs/ambush-timeline.md and docs/panll-export.md
.TP
Hypatia scanning endpoint (HYPATIA_API_KEY)
.TP
gitbot-fleet observer endpoint (GITBOT_FLEET_ENDPOINT)
.RE

If any check fails, the command exits with status 1, which enables Hypatia and gitbot-fleet to flag the repository for follow-up before container builds run.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PANIC_ATTACK_BIN
Override the binary path used by PanLL when invoking ambush.
.TP
.B HYPATIA_API_KEY
Optional key that diagnostics use to confirm Hypatia scanning is configured.
.TP
.B GITBOT_FLEET_ENDPOINT
Optional endpoint that diagnostics use to verify gitbot-fleet observers are available.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B AI.a2ml
AI manifest describing reports, storage, and assisted workflows.
.TP
.B docs/ambush-timeline.md, docs/panll-export.md
Guides that diagnostics verify exist before publishing containers.
.TP
.B man/panic-attack.1
This manual page. Install it under /usr/local/share/man/man1/ when packaging the binary.
.SH SEE ALSO
.RI panic-attack-container (8), selur-compose(1)
